I know Larry wants to address the core
as well sir please raise your right hand
do you swear or affirm the testimony
you're about to provided in the crew
whole truth and nothing but the truth
under penalty of perjury not sure
thank you you need to come right up to
the podium right to the microphone what
would you like me to know it's just a
short statement your words these past
several days there were they've had a
significant emotional effect on myself
initiated me to my core they also
recognized that what I'm feeling
pales in comparison to the pain trauma
and emotional destruction that how sorry
I am for what this occurs except
football apology sir you need to clean
up the microphone or they can't hear you
an acceptable apology to all of you it's
impossible to write and convey I will
carry your words with me for the rest of
my things
sir I know that's true I hope you are
shaken to your core their victims are
clearly shaken to their core and I know
there are still some who asked are you
broken because you got caught
first let me address counsel I agree
with your words in regard to no one
should blame defense counsel and
vigilante crime is not tolerated so I
hope but no one will do anything
untoward against counselors and children
their families their firms their cars
whatever this does Christ crying was
crying solves absolutely nothing please
respect their job it's a difficult one
I know I've been in their shoes and the
Sixth Amendment does guarantee each
defendant the right to counsel doesn't
matter what the defendant has done but
they have the right to counsel I also
want to say that being said we also have
the First Amendment so you are all free
to have your own opinions it's always a
balancing act between the First
Amendment the sixth amendment all of the
due process and other counts amendments
to the Constitution they are all
available in there
way and that's why we have an organized
and just society and that's why we are
here today because this defendant has
been brought to justice do not make it
worse please before I get to sentencing
I want to talk about a couple of things
and first I've said what I need to say
to the victims I have a little bit more
to say you are no longer victims you are
survivors you're very strong and I've
addressed you individually before I say
anything further I don't know if you all
know this and I know that the world is
watching I know this because I'm on the
bench every day and this isn't the only
heinous crime that appears in this court
the National Crime Victimization survey
that's done by the Justice Department
annually reports that 310 out of every
1000 assaults are reported to police
which means that two out of three go
unreported the voices of the survivors
have Alan everyone report keep your
voice up Rachel's voice hopefully will
raise these numbers of reports and all
of your voices but that suggesting does
not include children 12 and under one in
ten children will be sexually abused by
their 18th birthday one in seven girls
one in 25 boys by their 18th birthday
that means that in the United States I'm
not talking about any other country but
in the United States 400,000 babies born
in the US will become victims of child
show abuse it stops now speak out like
these survivors become part of the army
I knew one case at a time and I really
so very much appreciate all of you thank
yous I've read some of the Twitter's and
Facebook's take all of what's going on
in the media I'm not special I'm doing
my job if you come into my courtroom any
Wednesday watch sentencing I give
everybody a voice I give defendants of
life their families when they're here I
give those little to voice I try to
treat everybody like family because
that's the justice system that I was
raised to believe in I came to this
country stateless I'm naturalized my
father's Maltese my mother's German and
I was raised on old country values and
my grandmother always told me and my
parents always told me my grandfather
too that America is the greatest country
I believe that it's why I served in the
military that's why I've always done
community service I'm not really
well-liked because I speak out
I don't have many friends because I
speak out you asked me a question you
better be ready for the answer how you
speak out because I want to change
because I don't believe in hiding the
truth and I'm not saying I'm always
right but I try I also don't believe
that one size fits all when it comes to
sentencing
another reason I listen I know that
there are some judges for every crime
they give the same punishment I don't
think that's justice
I believe in individualized sentencing I
follow the Constitution and I believe
our system works I also believe these
survivors
now there's case law about how I can
consider what I can consider and first
and foremost my sentence reflects the
seven in regard to who defended Clinton
but the remainder of you 161 others add
to the credibility of those seven so
technically I'm considering everything
everyone because you're crying all of
your crimes the depth of them have cut
into the core of this community in many
communities and all of the families of
people we don't even know
and sir
the media has asked me to release your
letter I'm not going to do that counsel
may object the media may object but
there is some information in here that
troubles me in regard to the victims and
I don't want them revitalized by the
words that you have in here but I do
want to read some more because I've
considered it in sentencing as an extent
as an extension of your apology and
whether I believe it or not so I want
you to cater your words I've already
read this poem and I'm not reading
everyone so let me begin we will battle
judge went ballistic at sentencing since
I pled guilty to the state cases and
spent 10 percent on the federal case and
90 percent found the state cases and
civil suits
she gave me 60 years instead of five to
twenty years in parentheses three
consecutive 20-year sentences I'm
pleaded guilty to possession of porn
from 9 2004 to 12 2004 for months the
prosecutor even admitted that I never
belonged to any porn site any chat room
was not on the dirt web and also they
could not prove I've muted it was all
deleted of course I shared my
electronics and I couldn't
that show for four months of porn
possession from 2004 I was sentenced to
60 years not proper appropriate they're
going down a few lines what I did in the
state cases was medical not sexual but
because of a porn
I lost all support that's another reason
for the state guilty plea
what do move down for you
so I'm trying to avoid a trial to save
the stress to this community my family
the victims yet look what is happening
it is wrong I was at the doctor because
my treatments worked and those patients
that are down speaking out for the same
ones that praised and came back over and
over and referred family and friends to
see me the media convinced them that
everything I did was wrong and met so
you feel I broke their trust hell hath
no fury like a woman scorned it is just
a complete nightmare the stories that
are being fabricated to sensationalize
this then
they forced me to say
hey that or they were going to trial and
not accepting luckily I wanted to plead
no contest
but the AG refused that I was so
manipulated by Anton and now at Polina
and all I wanted was to minimize stress
to everyone like I wrote earlier going
down a little bit further in addition
with the federal case my medical
treatments with the Olympic / National
Team gymnastics were discussed as part
of the police the FBI investigated them
in 2013 and found nothing substantial
because it was medical now they're
seeking the media attention and
financial for
would you like to live dragon please no
job because you are guilty aren't you
are you guilty sir
I said IP exactly
the new sign language has become
treatment these quotes these air quotes
and I will never see them again without
thinking of you and your despicable act
I don't care how they're used I will
always think of quotes and the word
treatment it was not treatment what you
did it was not medical there is no
medical evidence that was ever brought
when his case first came to me and I've
told you this and I apologized to the
Olympians and athletes but I have five
children two dogs my parents live with
me I work four jobs I don't have much
time for television I don't watch sports
although last year I was a soccer coach
much to the laughter of my family I
didn't know anything about you your name
or anything that was going up and so
when I kept saying we're going to trial
here's the date and everyone wanted more
time I said don't use the car and then
the cases were merged and we delayed it
and I still thought well maybe there's a
defense of medical treatment why didn't
think that because it's my job to be
fair and impartial but also because my
two brothers and my father are very well
known and respected doctors real doctors
with real treatments and research
dedicated to healing
I haven't considered that in this case
but I have heard from your survivors now
that they trust doctors like I trust the
doctors in my family the doctors i go to
but i still thought while there's a
defence of medical treatment and there
are changes in the medical community
every day for the betterment
so up until the time you fled I believed
that maybe there was a defense here
despite compelling the information I was
ready for trial your counsel was ready
for trial the Attorney General's Office
was ready for trial you sir decided to
plead because there was no medical
treatment you did this for your pleasure
and your control this letter which comes
two months after your fleet tells me
that you have not yet owned what you did
but you still think somehow you are
right that you are a doctor that you're
entitled that you don't have to listen
and then you did dream it I wouldn't
send my dogs to you sir there's no
treatment here you finally told the
truth
in action is an action silence is
indifference justice requires action and
a voice and that is what has happened
here in this Court
a hundred and sixty eight buckets of
water were placed on your so-called
match that got out of control
I also like law enforce or like the
Attorney General want to thank law
enforcement for their investigation but
I also want to be the voice on behalf of
these survivors who asks law enforcement
to continue their fine work and to also
include the federal government there has
to be a massive investigation as to why
there was inaction why there was funny
justice requires more than what I can do
on this bench I wanted to also applaud
all of the council in the attorney
general's office I want to also applaud
defense counsel you all have done fine
work you've made me proud of our legal
system we all work together for the
betterment of our communities and that
is law enforcement prosecutors defense
counsel investigators there are
countless people it's the only way our
system works we need this balance so all
of you when I look at myself as Lady
Justice my arms are like this they are
balanced prosecution defendants are
balanced it only starts to tip after
there's a plea and after I take into
consideration everything
happened so I want everyone shoots
understand I've also done the homework I
always do people versus wha philosophy
I'm sure I slaughtered the name I
apologize but it is spelled w AC l aw
escapade I 286 Misha 634 - 2009 case and
in it and I want you to clearly
understand it says plainly the law does
not limit victims impact statements to
direct victims it doesn't save and I
have found nowhere that will Emma C from
having you here all of your visions
as I said before my counsel came to me
and said we're not gonna go to trial
despite our court having already sent
out 200 of the 800 juror requests and
they told me their plea and would I
consider it move trial there was the
agreement between us because I've always
and they know it they are familiar with
me let people speak and I wanted all
victims and we had a discussion about
which victims and of course there was an
objection to one of them I'd let it come
in any way that was part of the plea
that you entered into to allow the
victim impact statements because they
after that discussion I know your
lawyers as good as they are sat down
with you instead the judge is going to
allow this and when it comes down to it
I know it also because this was signed
by the Attorney General by defendant and
by defendants counsel on November 22nd
aside from the letter that you wrote a
couple of months after your plea which
tells me you still don't get it for
something I don't understand and I want
to make clear sir you knew you had a
problem then is clear to me you knew you
had a problem from a very young age even
before you are a doctor you could have
taken yourself away from temptation and
you did not but worse yet there isn't a
survivor who hasn't come in here and
said how would renowned you were I trust
what they say you could have gone
anywhere in the world to be treated you
could have gone to any resort any doctor
place where you could get treatment in
Europe they have all sorts of hidden
places for things like this no one had
to know and you could have found some
treatment some help taken some medicine
you would have done that if you had
cancer I know you would have your about
self-preservation but you decided to not
address once inside you that causes this
control urge but causes you to be a
sexual predator
so your urge is escalated and based on
the numbers that we all know go
underreported I can't even guess how
many vulnerable children and families
you've actually assaulted
your decision to assault was precise
calculated manipulative devious
despicable I don't have to add words
because you're survivors have said all
of that I don't want to repeat it
you can't give them that their innocence
their youth you can't give a father back
his life before one of your victims her
life when she took it can't return the
daughter to the mother the father to the
daughter
you played on everyone's of all our
ability I'm not vulnerable not to you
not to other criminals at that podium I
swore to uphold the Constitution and the
law and I am well-trained I know exactly
what to do and at this time I'm going to
do it and I want you to know as much as
it was my honor and privilege to hear
his sister survivors it is my honor and
privilege to sentence you because sir
you do not deserve to walk outside of a
prison ever again you have done nothing
to control those urges and anywhere you
want disruption will occur to those most
vulnerable
now I am honoring the agreement that's
been requested of me and I want you to
know I'm not gonna ban kind of cheat
sheet I'm only a warrior I know that you
do have a lot of education in physics
and math but I have a cheat sheet it is
my privilege on count one two five eight
ten and 18 and 24
to sentence you to 40 years and when I
look at my cheat sheet 40 years just so
you know and you can count it off your
calendar
it's 480 months the talent that I need
to send a message to the parole board in
the event somehow God is gracious and I
know he is and you survived the 60 years
in federal court first and then you
start in my 40 years you've gone off the
page here as to what I'm doing my page
only goes 200 years sir I'm giving 175
years which is 2100 months I just signed
your death warrant I I need everyone to
be quiet
I suck talent powers I told you I'm not
nice I find that you don't get it that
you're a danger you remain a danger I'm
a judgement believes in life and
rehabilitation when rehabilitation as
possible
I have many defendants come back here
and show you great things they've done
in their lives after probation after
parole I don't find that possible with
you
so you will receive jail credit and
count one two five eight ten and
eighteen three hundred and sixty nine
days and count twenty four you will have
three hundred and seventy billions jail
credit if you are ever out which is
doubtful you and you required to
register with the Michigan sex offenders
Registration Act complying with all of
the requirements of that Act in addition
to global position monitoring system you
would wear a GPS you will pay
restitution in the amount to be
determined based on whatever amounts are
submitted and your attorneys can ask me
for a restitution hearing so that I can
determine what a reasonable amount is
for the victims
I am leaving restitution open as long as
those babies have issues that can be
medically documented you will comply
with DNA testing and pay a sixty dollar
fee for that I suspect that was already
done but you owe 60 dollars back to the
county for them or law enforcement
whoever will put it in the right pocket
you must submit to HIV testing and
complete counseling associated with HIV
and AIDS you
waive confidentiality and the last test
results and medical information and
changing this test to be released to the
court you will pay 476 dollars in state
funding you will pay a crime victims
assessment United 130 dollars counsel
wish to address court costs and fines
I don't know his financial state judge
she doesn't have any money to pay the
court costs and fines if the court wants
to impose it before can oppose it I'm
not imposing any court costs and fines
and here's the reason I don't know what
he has or what he'll get in the future
the victims deserve the money the county
will survive one way or another I'm also
going to make recommendations the
Michigan Department of Corrections for
mental health treatment health treatment
I understand he has the medical
conditions and he should be allowed to
take medicine for that you should have
an individual and group counseling
treatment for sexual predators whatever
they allow I'm also going to send a
message I'm not sure but I believe I
read an article sir that you were
treating people in prison it don't have
a license don't commit any more crimes I
know you don't have any more lives to
give but you can't be treating people
you're not a doctor
so I'm not sure how that's happening but
I wanted to spend
message
you have 21 days to appeal 10 days to
request court-appointed counsel to
acknowledge receipt of your appellate
rights Your Honor I've got the most of
right to appeal and I'm providing it to
apply now do acknowledge it that's right
thank you
let me just say to the media again I'm
just doing my job I know you all want to
talk to me my Secretary has informed me
that I have a growing stack of requests
from print media from television from
magazines from around the world
literally it's story is not about me
it never was about me I hope I've opened
some doors but you see I'm a little
stupid because I thought everybody did
what I did and if they didn't maybe they
ought to but I do this and have been
doing it and if you don't believe me but
keeper of my words is right by my side
and lawyers who are hearing us are
shaking their head and saying yep I've
waited too long as she lets everybody
talk sometimes people get upset I don't
care I get paid the same so I ask to the
media who want to talk with me I'm not
going to be making any statements I know
that my office and I may have even I
don't know in the line a couple of weeks
convey that after this is over it's just
not my story
after the appellant period runs with
victims by my side to tell their stories
I might answer some more questions and
write that on the record
I don't know what more I could possibly
say
but I'm not going to talk with any media
person until after the appeal period and
even then if you talk to me about this
case I will have a survivor with me
because it is their story
so I wanted everybody to hear that from
me I respect all of the media outlets
you've done just a fabulous job here
there hasn't been any commotion or upset
by this and I do believe in the First
Amendment so I thank you all for being
here because it's an important story for
the survivors as to today I know that
there are a lot of survivors family
members husbands friends a lot of people
in the courtroom you have voices I'm
going to leave the courtroom defendant
will leave the courtroom the attorney is
amazed a victim's family memories
survivors Papa media you can have your
own press conference right here
spur-of-the-moment sometimes works out
the best doesn't again I want me to stay
tuned until after the appeal period and
again there's any survivor that who at
that point if somebody wants to talk to
me I'm sure you'll beat me down to
another story but if you're not please
give your name's Julie the victims
advocate so the Viking contactors
because please media do not contact me
on this story without a survivor
it's their story
I think everybody in this case sir I
hope somewhere you have heard
everybody's words and it really does
resonate with you anything else for the
record nothing but heaven all right so
the media's happens to stay here with
all those lovely people who may want to
speak with you thank you that's all for
the record